docs intro (#16601)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/v3/get-started/index.mdx

---
title: Introduction
sidebarTitle: Introduction
mode: wide
---
**What is Prefect?**  

> Prefect is an open-source orchestration engine that turns your Python functions into production-grade data pipelines with minimal friction. You can build and schedule workflows in pure Python—no DSLs or complex config files—and run them anywhere. Prefect handles the heavy lifting for you out of the box: automatic state tracking, failure handling, real-time monitoring, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect is an open-source orchestration engine that turns your Python functions into production-grade data pipelines with minimal friction. You can build and schedule workflows in pure Python—no domain specific languages or complex config files—and run them anywhere. Prefect handles the heavy lifting for you out of the box: automatic state tracking, failure handling, real-time monitoring, and more.
```

Author: 🙇 ! Going to keep for now (trying to maintain a specific tone).
